I have tried over the years,
whether it's conspiracy theorists,
community is,
or terrorists or um,
or uh,
you know,
Russia are on state,
the state sponsored actors,
the domestic ideologues.
Um,
I have tried to always say like,
here's the specific kind of forensic analysis of this particular operation and
then here is what we can maybe take from it and make,
make changes.
Um,
we've,
we've seen some of that begin to take shape and so I feel grateful to
have had the opportunity to work towards connecting those dots and work towards
having this conversation.
Um,
meaning meaning helping people understand what's going on.
I think,
I am not,
I am most concerned about the,
as this gets increasingly,
uh,
easy to do through things like chat bots.
Um,
you know,
now there's these,
um,
you've seen the,
uh,
the website,
this person does not exist.com.
So it's a,
there's a technology called,
it's a machine learning technique,
generative adversarial networks.
And they,
um,
it's these basically there in this particular application working to create
pictures of people,
faces of people.
And so this website is,
when you go to it,
it pulls up a,
yeah,
there you go.
So this person does not actually exist.
This is not a religion.
Yeah.
And so these are all um,
these are computer generated.
Yup.
So and you can see created by,
again it says it down at the bottom there.
So these are not real people and so we have increasingly sophisticated chat
technology.
We have increasingly sophisticated like you're not going to detect that image
somewhere else,
that old trick of Lake right click and look and see if you're talking to someone
with a stock photo that goes right out the window is stuff like this gets easier
and easier to do.
Deep faking.
Yeah,
the deep fakes on the video front.
I think that it does change.
I think we haven't quite adapted to what does it like to live in a world where
so much of the Internet is fake.
And I do think per your point about identity that there will be groups of people
that self select into communities where identity is mandatory.
You know,
we're,
this is who you are and you have some sort of verification versus people who
choose to live in the world of,
um,
you know,
drink from the fire hose,
take it all in and try to filter it out yourself.
Um,
so we look at these evolving technologies and I don't necessarily feel,
you know,
particularly optimistic in the short term.
I think that ultimately it does,
like we change as a society to a large extent in response to this.
We think about,
um,
you know,
they're going to be some fixes that the platforms are going to be able to
undertake.
They're going to be,
we're going to get better at detecting the stuff.
Maybe,
you know,
the adversary will evolve.
Hopefully we get better at detecting it as it evolves,
but it's,
I think we fundamentally ultimately change.
Like people become more aware that this is a thing.
They are more skeptical.
Uh,
that does change our,
the,
our ways of interacting with each other.
Uh,
but I,
I feel like that is going to be the direction that this goes.
There's the more like,
you know,
the thing that keeps me up at night would be more the,
um,
the ease of,
of turning this from a social media problem until like a real world war problem.
Meaning,
um,
as an example,
back in 2014 when the first things Internet research agency dead,
September 11th,
2014,
they created a hoax,
um,
saying that isis had attacked a chemical plant down in Louisiana.
It's called the Columbia.
The Columbia chemical plant hoax is,
I think there's a Wikipedia article about it now.
But what happened was they created a collection of websites.
They created fake CNN mockups,
Twitter accounts,
text messages that went to local people,
radio station,
Collins,
you name it,
everything to create the impression that a chemical factory had just exploded in
Louisiana.
And there was some attribution to isis.
And this was done on September 11th.
So this is the kind of thing where this actually did go viral.
Like I remember this happening not as a social media researcher.
I just remember it actually being pushed into my social media feed.
So you have these,
um,
and we didn't know that it was in and a research agency for a year and a half
after.
But this is the kind of thing where you look at parts of the world that aren't
the u s like the recent,
um,
drama between India and Pakistan.
And you can see how these kinds of things can go horribly,
horribly wrong if throng person is convinced that something has happened or if
there's a,
you know,
or if this leads to our riot or if this leads to real world action.
I think that's,
um,
one of the main fears.
As this gets better and better,
the video fakes get better the.